Simplifiers: use the internet as a tool to make their lives easier. Often have a specific goal in mind before using the inernet and want to accomplish what they are doing quickly and efficiently.
Surfers: People that go from page to page spending not very much time reading all the content on the page. Skim a wide variety of web sites to get information.
Connectors: People who use the internet to stay in touch or make contacts. Heavy users of social media sites and e-mail.
Sportsters: Spend moderate amounts of time on few web pages. Generally feel more comfortably spending money at retail stores rather than online outlets.

2.Customer based marketing focusses more on the customer than the products the store is selling. By focussing on the customer instead of pushing the product, the customer is more likely to return to that shop for future purchases. This includes royalty programs, customer service and support, customer appreciation days. This type of marketing gives shoppers incentives to return.

Product based marketing focus on the strength of a product as opposed to trying to make the customer happy. This can be done with 2 different types of product marketing: general and specific.
Specific will focus on an individual product, often promoting why it is a superior product, what it offers that competitors don't have, etc. General product marketing on the other hand doesn't have a specific product in mind and will appeal to the general public without any specific type of consumer in mind.

3. Regardless of the complexity of a product all companies selling something can benefit from online advertising and social media distribution. If someone on facebook for example mentions the product all their friends become aware of the product and possibly have access to the facebook page to learn more about it. In first world countries most people have cell phones and some form of internet wheter it be on desktops or browsing on the web. It would enhance a companies vantage point to have marketing on as many different mediums to maximize the ability to get product exposure. This can include e-mail subscribers, facebook, and web hosting.

In poorer parts of the world where internet usage is less common, it is probably not necessary to hit all these different mediums. Advertising throuhg word of mouth is probably necessary enough and focussing on customer marketing as opposed to product marketing would provide better results. When dealing with larger companies general product based marketing appeals to a larger group of people. 
