Due Date: Midnight of Friday 17 October 2014, Weight: 50% (50 marks)

Description: Part 2 is a new piece of work that should not include material from Part 1. As before, it is a written analysis (3410ICT 3500 words; 7101ICT 4500 words) of a complex ethical problem similar to that which you might encounter in the IT industry. This scenario is a continuation of the scenario used in Part 1. In the same way as in Part 1, use the Ethical Decision Model  to analyse the situation and arrive at a rationally supported course of action. Your reasoning should be made clear (show how you arrived at the decision, don't just present the decision).    You should make reference to the Normative Ethical Theories (as outlined in text) as part of your analysis.   You are free to mention any other content from the text that you see fit to use.    This assignment is the second part of a two part assignment. It follows on from the scenario presented in Part 1.    

The final 1000 words of this assignment should be a description of how your ethical standards and ability to solve ethical dilemmas has changed since you began the course. This is a free-format description of what you have learned, what capabilities you now have that you did not have before, how this is likely to help you in the future, plus any other points you see fit to mention.

If you are doing 3410ICT, the total number of words for both assignments is 5,500 (i.e. 2,000+3,500). If doing 7101ICT, total is 7,000 words (i.e 2,500+4,500).

Criteria & Marking: As with Part 1, your result be be determined based on: 

How deep your analysis went using the EDM (there are subtle issues that anin-depth analysis will find), 
How valid your supporting arguments were, 
Other supporting material from text,
How well you performed the final 1000 word task,
How well it is all presented (clear, concise, grammatically correct, use of template), and
No more than 10% duplicate text reading on TurnitIn (due to copying from the Case Study and other sources - the work MUST be your own).
You have considerable freedom within the broad constraints listed above.   The final 1000 word analysis section will be assessed for evidence that you have learned something significant from this course based on the requirements stated in the assessment task.   Overall, take into account that there is no one right way of doing the assignment, there are only degrees of correctness. Individual students have much scope to present their case and their findings. Unlike programming where a solution is either correct or incorrect, there is inherent ambiguity in ethical analysis. Use this sample analysis as a guide.

Watch the How To Video (12 min).

Submission: Turnitin via L@G (see link at bottom of this page) Note, this is an individual assignment.

Competencies that must be displayed. You must demonstrate an understanding of the course material (lecture/chapter content) such that you can apply it in your analysis of the case study, then synthesise and evaluate these into well-reasoned conclusions. 

To pass the assignment you must analyse the case study then produce a well-reasoned set of conclusions. This is a third year level course which requires evidence of being able to perform these activities. The ACS requires it as a condition of your admission to the Society.

How can I get help with the assignment? There is ample information in the text book, instruction video, assignment description (above), Sample analysis and template that you should not need further information. Allow enough time to do the assignment, it will probably take longer than you initially estimate. If you don't know what to write, then like the IT professionals you are about to become you need to go back to the reference material and think some more about it. The answers are all there. Emailing me saying 'I don't know what to write' or 'Tell me what to write' will receive a reply suggesting a closer consideration of the reference material. In fairness to everyone, I will not be telling anyone what to write beyond what is already available to everyone. 
